Hi!

This mail goes to the students registered for "MA8701 Advances statistical methods in inference and learning"
 at Bb, or who have answered the class survey or have contacted me. If you have decided not to follow the course – please let me know and I will remove you from my email list.

As you probably know from the press conference by the prime minster yedsterday – we are digital at least until January 18. 

ZOOM
We have secured a socalled zoom-room at S21 (2nd floor Sentralbygg 2) at Gløshaugen for the lectures, and hopefully we will be able to use that room in the not so distant future, but for now – only zoom:

Topic: MA8701 Lecture
Time: Jan 11, 2021 09:15 AM Oslo
https://NTNU.zoom.us/j/95064249125?pwd=S3RRYXJlUFZwVC9kc0dPa0VzK3p4QT09
Meeting ID: 950 6424 9125
Passcode: 869511
(The same link will be used for all zoom sessions in MA8701 for the whole semester.)

IN CLASS
I will lecture with my camera on (then you don´t need to have your camera on) and I will use my ipad (sometimes with a split screen). For the in-class break-out sessions I hope that as many of you as possible are able to have your camera on. If that is not possible I would very much like if you go into your Zoom app (which probably takes you to https://ntnu.zoom.us/) and upload a profile picture and use your full name for the login. For the break-out session you are assumed to be able to talk to members of your break-out group (so check your microphone and audio settings in zoom), and we will also have a short presentation round in class. I will use zoom polling during class. I do not plan to record the lectures.

COURSE INFORMATION
Information about the course is here: 
https://wiki.math.ntnu.no/ma8701/2021v/start
And, please answer the questionnarie on top of the page before class.

PREPARE FOR CLASS
For the January 11 lecture the topics are: Introduction to the course, getting to know eachother, plans ahead, and new material on model selection and assessment.
Reading: Chapter 2 (partly assumed known from previous course) and 7 (new) of
Hastie, Tibshirani and Friedman (2009), "The Elements of Statistical Learning" (2nd edition), Springer-Verlag. 763 pages. Available for download at https://web.stanford.edu/~hastie/Papers/ESLII.pdf and at Springer (ebook for NTNU). We refer to this book as ELS.
The requirements to the course indirectly also assume that you know the ELS chapters 3 (except 3.2.3, 3.2.4, 3.4, 3.7, 3.8), 4 (except 4.4.4), so maybe good also to look through these chapters this week or as preparation to the second lecture. 

STUDY TECHNIQUE
I plan to include snippets of study technique advices  (and you are welcome to share your experiences and thoughts). I am currently reading Barbara Oakley "A mind for numbers – how to excel at math and science even if you funked algebra" (not that any of us flunked algebra). The book is available at Storytel or in the book store. 
Here is a tip (from the book) for your preparation for class: 
Before you start to really read and write down and work with the equations and concepts "Prime your mental pump" by a picture walk through chapters 1-4 (not 5+6) + 7 of the ELS book, looking only at the graphics (pictures/graphs) and at the section headings, summaries and questions in the end of each chapter. This will help you organize your thoughts and create "neural hooks" to hang your thinking on.

I am very much looking forward to meeting you in class – first digital and then IRL!

Any questions – just email me!

Hope to see you at 9.15 on Monday January 11.

Kind regards
Mette

